Portfolio day plan (#311)
CodeYourFuture/curriculum: content/portfolio/blocks/data/index.md

headless = true
time = 30
facilitation = false
emoji= '🧩'
[objectives]
    1='Identify core components required to provide data and functionality to the user interface'
+++

For your user interface to work, you will need to interact with other services.

Here are the kinds of functionality you may need to provide via your user interface:

### 📖 Reading

A means of **reading data** - the user interface may need to fetch data from some external source so it can be rendered in the interface.

### 💾 Persisting

A means of **persisting changes**. Users will need to make changes to data or create new data. For example, a user might need to **create** a comment on an article. And then they may need to **update** the like on an existing comment. In each of these cases, the data is stored or **persisted** somewhere in a database. Your user interface will need a way to create/update data in the database.

{{<note type="activity" title="Discuss">}}

- What are the key components of the application, how are they connected, is it a static or a dynamic application, what kind of data are you storing?
- What sort of data does the client application need - what kind of data is it fetching?

> - What is the purpose of each component in your application, how will it communicate with other components in the architecture?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- What is the purpose of each component in your application, how will it communicate with other components in the architecture?
- How do your different pieces of data relate to each other? If you're storing things in a database, what tables will you need, and what relationships will there between the tables?
```

+++
title = '🗃️ Data'
headless = true
time = 30
facilitation = false
emoji= '🧩'
[objectives]
    1='Identify core components required to supply data and functionality to the user interface'
+++

> For your application to work, your user interface will need to interact with other services. These services can provide data and the means of updating this data to the user interface.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For your application to work, your user interface will interact with other services. These services provide data and ways to update this data via the user interface.
```

Here are the kinds of functionality these service may provide:

### 📖 Reading

> A means of **reading data** - the user interface may need to fetch data from some external source so it can be rendered in the interface.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A means of **reading data**. The user interface might fetch data from some external source and render it in the interface.
```

### 💾 Persisting

> A means of **persisting changes**. Users will need to create or update existing data. For example, a user might need to **create** a comment on an article. Another user may need to **update** the like/dislike on an existing comment. In each of these cases, any changes are **persisted** in a database. The user interface enables users to read and persist data without worrying about the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A means of **persisting changes**. Users will need to create or update existing data. For example, a user might need to **create** a comment on an article. Another user may need to **update** the like/dislike on an existing comment. In each of these cases, any changes are **persisted** in a database. The user interface enables users to read and persist data without worrying about how this is done.
```

{{<note type="activity" title="Discuss">}}

> - What are the key components of the application, how are they connected, is it a static or a dynamic application, what kind of data are you storing?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- What are the key components of the application? How are they connected? Is it a static or a dynamic application? What kind of data are you storing?
```

> - What sort of data does the client application need - what kind of data is it fetching?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- What sort of data does the client application need? What kind of data is it fetching?
```

> - What is the purpose of each component in your application, how will it communicate with other components in the architecture?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- What is the purpose of each component in your application? How will it communicate with other components in the architecture?
```
